update documents (#241)
StarRocks/starrocks-kubernetes-operator: doc/deploy_starrocks_with_operator_howto.md

# Deploy StarRocks with Operator

This document introduces how to use the StarRocks Operator to automate the deployment and management of a StarRocks
cluster on a Kubernetes cluster.

It includes the following parts:

1. Deploy StarRocks Operator
2. Deploy StarRocks cluster
3. Manage StarRocks Cluster
    1. Access StarRocks cluster
    2. Upgrade StarRocks cluster
    3. Scale StarRocks cluster
    4. Using ConfigMap to configure your StarRocks cluster

## Prerequisites

1. Kubernetes cluster version >= 1.18.3.
2. kubelet version >= 1.18.3.

## 1. Deploy StarRocks Operator

> It Includes the following main steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It includes the following main steps:
```

1. **Deploy the StarRocks Operator by using a default configuration file.**
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/StarRocks/starrocks-kubernetes-operator/main/deploy/operator.yaml
   ```
   The StarRocks Operator is deployed to the namespace `starrocks` and manages all StarRocks clusters under all
   namespaces. After `operator.yaml` is applied, The following resources will be created:
    ```bash
    namespace/starrocks created
    serviceaccount/starrocks created
    clusterrole.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/kube-starrocks-operator created
    clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/kube-starrocks-operator created
    role.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cn-leader-election-role created
    rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/cn-leader-election-rolebinding created
    deployment.apps/kube-starrocks-operator created
    ```
2. **Deploy the StarRocks Operator by using a custom configuration file.** By default, the Operator is configured to
   install in the starrocks namespace. To use the Operator in a custom namespace, download the Operator manifest and

>    edit all instances of namespace to specify your custom namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   substitute all instances of namespace to your custom namespace.
```

       ```bash
       curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/StarRocks/starrocks-kubernetes-operator/main/deploy/operator.yaml
       ```
    2. Modify the configuration file **operator.yaml** to suit your needs.
    3. Deploy the StarRocks Operator.
       ```bash
       kubectl apply -f operator.yaml
       ```

3. **Check the running status of the StarRocks Operator.** If the pod is in the `Running` state and all containers
   inside the pod are `READY`, the StarRocks Operator is running as expected.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl -n starrocks get pods
    NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    starrocks-controller-65bb8679-jkbtg   1/1     Running   0          5m6s
    ```

## 2. Deploy StarRocks Cluster

You need to prepare a separate yaml file to deploy the StarRocks FE, BE and CN components. You can directly use
the [sample configuration files](https://github.com/StarRocks/starrocks-kubernetes-operator/tree/main/examples/starrocks)
provided by StarRocks to deploy a StarRocks cluster (an object instantiated by using the custom resource StarRocks

> Cluster). For example, you can use **starrocks-fe-and-be.yaml** to deploy a StarRocks cluster that contains three FE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cluster). For example, you can use **starrocks-fe-and-be.yaml** to deploy a StarRocks cluster that consists of three FE
```

Deploying the StarRocks cluster takes a while. During this period, you can use the
command `kubectl -n starrocks get pods` to check the starting status of the StarRocks cluster. If all the pods are in
the `Running` state and all containers inside the pods are `READY`, the StarRocks cluster is running as expected.

> **NOTE**
>
> If you customize the namespace in which the StarRocks cluster is located, you need to replace `starrocks` with the
> name of your customized namespace.

```bash
$ kubectl -n starrocks get pods
NAME                                  READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
starrocks-controller-65bb8679-jkbtg   1/1     Running   0          22h
starrockscluster-sample-be-0          1/1     Running   0          23h
starrockscluster-sample-be-1          1/1     Running   0          23h
starrockscluster-sample-be-2          1/1     Running   0          22h
starrockscluster-sample-fe-0          1/1     Running   0          21h
starrockscluster-sample-fe-1          1/1     Running   0          21h
starrockscluster-sample-fe-2          1/1     Running   0          22h
```

> **Note**
>

> > If some pods cannot start after a long period of time, you can use `kubectl logs -n starrocks <pod_name>` to view the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If some pods cannot be up after a long period of time, you can use `kubectl logs -n starrocks <pod_name>` to view the
```

> > log information or use `kubectl -n starrocks describe pod <pod_name>` to view the event information to locate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> log information or use `kubectl -n starrocks describe pod <pod_name>` to view the event information to address the
```

> problem.

## 3. Manage StarRocks Cluster

### 3.1. Access StarRocks Cluster

The components of the StarRocks cluster can be accessed through their associated Services, such as the FE Service. For
detailed descriptions of Services and their access addresses,
see [api.md](https://github.com/StarRocks/starrocks-kubernetes-operator/blob/main/doc/api.md)
and [Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/).

> 

Reviewer: add a bit more explanation on these two services. user should only use the `starrockscluster-sample-fe-service` for external usage.

From within the Kubernetes cluster, the StarRocks cluster can be accessed through the FE Service's ClusterIP.

1. Obtain the internal virtual IP address `CLUSTER-IP` and port `PORT(S)` of the FE Service.

    ```Bash
    $ kubectl -n starrocks get svc 
    NAME                                 TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                               AGE
    starrockscluster-sample-be-search    ClusterIP   None           <none>        9050/TCP                              66s
    starrockscluster-sample-be-service   ClusterIP   10.96.86.207   <none>        9060/TCP,8040/TCP,9050/TCP,8060/TCP   66s
    starrockscluster-sample-fe-search    ClusterIP   None           <none>        9030/TCP                              2m27s
    starrockscluster-sample-fe-service   ClusterIP   10.96.26.146   <none>        8030/TCP,9020/TCP,9030/TCP,9010/TCP   2m27s
    ```

2. Access the StarRocks cluster by using the MySQL client from within the Kubernetes cluster.

   ```Bash
   mysql -h 10.100.162.xxx -P 9030 -uroot
   ```

   Upon deploying a fresh StarRocks cluster, the `root` user's password remains unset, potentially posing a security
   risk.

>    See [Init Root Password When First Deploy HOWTO](./initialize_root_password_howto.md) for details on how to set the

Reviewer: here the cluster is deployed manually by operator with crd, better point to the manual change root password doc.

   `root` user's password by using helm chart.

#### 3.1.2. Access StarRocks Cluster from outside Kubernetes Cluster

From outside the Kubernetes cluster, you can access the StarRocks cluster through the FE Service's LoadBalancer or
NodePort. This topic uses LoadBalancer as an example:

1. Run the command `kubectl -n starrocks edit src starrockscluster-sample` to update the StarRocks cluster configuration
   file, and add `service` field to the `starRocksFeSpec` field.

    ```YAML
    spec:
      starRocksFeSpec:
        service:            
          type: LoadBalancer # specified as LoadBalancer
    ```

> 2. Obtain the IP address `EXTERNAL-IP` and port `PORT(S)` that the FE Service exposes to the outside.

Reviewer: add two more ways to access the service

- kubernetes node port
- kubectl proxy

And do a simple comparison on these 4 different ways and its suitable case.

Author: todo

```

#### 3.2.2. Upgrade FE nodes

Run the following command to specify a new FE image file, such as `starrocks/fe-ubuntu:latest`:

```bash
kubectl -n starrocks patch starrockscluster starrockscluster-sample --type='merge' -p '{"spec":{"starRocksFeSpec":{"image":"starrocks/fe-ubuntu:latest"}}}'
```

The upgrade process lasts for a while. You can run the command `kubectl -n starrocks get pods` to view the upgrade
progress.

### 3.3. Scale StarRocks cluster

This topic takes scaling out the BE and FE clusters as examples.

#### 3.3.1. Scale out BE cluster

Run the following command to scale out the BE cluster to 9 nodes:

```bash
kubectl -n starrocks patch starrockscluster starrockscluster-sample --type='merge' -p '{"spec":{"starRocksBeSpec":{"replicas":9}}}'
```

#### 3.3.2. Scale out FE cluster

Run the following command to scale out the FE cluster to 4 nodes:

```bash
kubectl -n starrocks patch starrockscluster starrockscluster-sample --type='merge' -p '{"spec":{"starRocksFeSpec":{"replicas":4}}}'
```

The scaling process lasts for a while. You can use the command `kubectl -n starrocks get pods` to view the scaling
progress.

> ### 3.4. Using ConfigMap to configure your StarRocks cluster

Reviewer: Add cautions on scale-in FE nodes, 1. can only scale-in step by step, and each time less than half of the nodes can be scaled-in.

2. can't do 3->1 scale in.
